# Introduction {#intro}

Project Jupyter is a broad collaboration that develops open-source tools for
interactive and exploratory computing. The tools include: IPython, the Jupyter
Notebook, Jupyter Hub, and an ecosystem of extensions contributed by a large
community. Jupyter Notebook exploded in popularity since late 2014, fueled by
its adoption as the favorite environment for doing data science. It has also
grown as a platform to use in the classroom, to develop teaching materials, to
share lessons and tutorials, and more. Notebooks are documents containing text
narratives, combined with executable code (many languages are supported) and the
output of that code. This marriage of content and code makes for a powerful new
form of data-based communication. Educators everywhere are adopting Jupyter for
teaching.

This handbook is for any educator teaching a topic that includes data analysis
or computation to support the learning—not just courses in engineering or
science, but also data journalism, business and quantitative economics,
data-based decision sciences and policy, quantitative health sciences, and
others. It aims to give an entry point, and a broad overview of Jupyter in
education. Whether you are already using Jupyter to teach, you have found
learning materials built on Jupyter that piqued your curiosity, or have never
heard of Jupyter, the material in this open book can help you empower your
teaching with this new technology.

Educators newly adopting Jupyter can be overwhelmed by having to navigate the
ecosystem of tools and content. They could study many examples, or consume
myriad blog posts and talk videos to distill the patterns of good practices and
technical solutions to best serve their students. Several early adopters, having
much experience to share, decided to begin collecting this know-how, and sharing
open documentation about using Jupyter for teaching and learning.

The Jupyter Community Workshop in DC (November 2018) began that process, with a
book sprint aimed at producing the first version of this handbook. The
collaboratively written book consolidates explanations and examples covering key
topics, including: what is Jupyter, how to try Jupyter, sharing notebooks with
students, locally installing Jupyter, cloud offerings, finding example
notebooks, writing lessons in Jupyter, making collections for a course,
exporting to other formats with nbconvert, writing textbooks with Jupyter, using
Binder, JupyterHub, making assignments and auto-grading, making online courses,
teaching with Jupyter in the classroom, active learning and flipped learning
pedagogies with Jupyter, guiding learners to create their own content in
Jupyter, and more. This open handbook will grow to encompass all you need to
know about Jupyter in Teaching and Learning.

If you find these materials helpful or inspiring, give us a shout-out on Twitter
using #Jupyter4Edu. We hope you do!


## Acknowledgements

The book sprint was held at the George Washington University in Washington, DC,
on 28–30 November 2018, and organized by Lorena A. Barba. Funding to support the
logistics and travel of all participants was possible thanks to a grant from
Bloomberg to Project Jupyter, and managed by NumFOCUS. The group was fêted at a
reception sponsored by Leidos. Participants traveled from all over the country
and volunteered their precious time and hard work to give this work to the
Jupyter community, with a heartfelt sense of gratitude to all the contributors
to the software projects we love and depend on. Thank you!

GitHub repository for this book: <https://github.com/jupyter4edu/jupyter-edu-book>
